Upstream Reports

Expert Insights, Viewpoints and Industry Reports

Upstream Reports consist of three types: Viewpoints, Expert Insights and Industry Reports. Expert Insights and Viewpoints capture sector-related analyst insights into recent trends and events. The analysts also use their expertise with guided assumptions to forecast future trends and the scenarios likely to develop from these trends. Expert Insights offer a brief analysis and review, while Viewpoints offer a more in-depth report. Industry Reports are regularly released reports that review and summarize industry-related news, events and performances, analyze trends, and use the cumulative knowledge of the analysts and the industry to provide forecast outlooks for the user.

Upstream Analytics

This is a web-based upstream asset valuation tool that leverages propriety GlobalData analyst cost and production forecasts and global fiscal regime models in the economics analysis model. This online tool allows users to customize search parameters and key project inputs, including production, costs and economic metrics, and immediately see the impact on the project valuation in this screening tool, without downloading or installing any software.


Upstream Analytics
Field Database provides detailed information on all oil and gas fields, globally. The database covers key commercial, geological and technical field attributes not exclusive to-
Basin
Capital & operating expenditure
Cashflows
Gravity
Historical & forecast production
Hydrogen sulphidecontent
Location
Ownership Details
Primary Trap Type
Reserves
Wells Database provides detailed information on all oil and gas wells, globally. Commercial, geological and technical well attributes are covered not exclusive to-
Basin
Flow rates
Formation
Gross & net pay thickness
Ownership details
Reserves
Well costs
Well depth
Blocks Database provides detailed information on all oil and gas blocks, globally. Key commercial, geological and technical attributes are covered not exclusive to-
Acreage
Basin
License number
License status
License type
Location
Maximum/minimum water depths of offshore blocks
Signature Bonus
Surface rental

The key sources for data are government reports, national statistics organizations, company reports and press releases, and national planning energy reports. The upstream-analyst and research-center teams liaise with national and international oil companies for additional insights when possible.

Data are reviewed and updated in two instances. In the first instance, analysts track news and current events and provide updates to the database concurrently. In the second, GlobalData uses its proprietary age analysis system, which tracks when the data were updated, what was updated, and which analyst or team was responsible. Threshold limits are then set to specific data point countries and regions, resulting in a schedule that the research center and analyst teams can follow.

For data points that are unavailable, for example capex, opex or production, GlobalData analysts use comparative analyses with assets of similar points of connection and other forecasting mechanisms alongside their experience and expertise to make determinations. The systematic, layered approach to quality shows GlobalData’s commitment and dedication to providing precise and accurate information. The quality assurance mechanism provides an opportunity to continuously improve methodologies.

Upstream Economics

The Upstream Economics platform provides global coverage of producing and commercially viable planned projects, with project-level historical and proprietary production, cost forecasts and analysis by GlobalData’s upstream analyst team. The platform provides three asset-level products: an economic evaluation and analysis of upstream oil and gas assets through a comprehensive economic model; a project report, or Panorama, with details such as asset development, geological characteristics and challenges; and supporting source documents for increased transparency. The platform also provides regime-specific base models, access to the fiscal and regulatory report and access to the tools for fiscal terms and fiscal take.


Forecast Engine

GlobalData’s proprietary forecast engine evaluates those mature and marginal production assets that are not covered by economic models, in order to provide a comprehensive forecast of the production, expenditure and cash flow of all fields. The engine estimates production based on historical field data and reservoir engineering principles, applies a cost profile leveraging the capex and opex information collected by analysts for analogue fields and applies the relevant product pricing and fiscal terms in order to generate key financial metrics, including Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), payback, and break-even pricing. Additional information to improve the estimates generated by the engine is researched daily and the engine's outputs are refreshed weekly based on such data.

Production Forecast
Production is forecast based on reservoir engineering principles and calculated using a modified Arps equation (qt = qip / (1 + b Di t) ^ 1/b). Variables within the Arps equation, such as nominal decline rate, annual terminal decline and decline exponent, have been programmed to defined settings. Available historical production data are also used accordingly for understanding and projecting field decline. A number of additional factors are taken into account, such as reported reserves, field location and production phase.

Capex and Opex Estimation
The engine applies an algorithm to estimate capex and opex profiles at a field level based on a variety of field characteristics. These include high-level information such as location, field terrain and resource type, as well as more detailed attributes such as production facility type and oil gravity. By identifying analogue fields for which analysts have collected specific expenditure data at the field level, the engine applies an appropriate expenditure profile.

Pricing
Specific asset or field commodity prices are used when available. When not available, commodity prices are taken with reference to country or regional benchmarks. An estimated discount or premium is applied to the benchmark price based on historical differentials and quality adjustments. Domestic prices are used in countries with regulated pricing in hydrocarbon production. Prices are updated as soon as new data is available for a specific asset or country. Commodity future prices are estimated based on the monthly quotations of benchmark commodities traded in a future exchange. A historical differential is estimated and applied to the commodity price during the first three future years. These are held constant from the fourth year. If futures prices are not available, the differential between the regional price and benchmark over the most recent six months is carried forward.

Fiscal Regime
Field economics for fields evaluated by the forecast engine are assessed under the most appropriate fiscal regime. This is chosen using an algorithm taking into account a variety of factors, such as asset age, together with the different generations of fiscal regimes in a given country, location and resource type.


Production Forecast Methodology

Several indicators are fed into GlobalData’s economic valuation and modeling process, including proprietary production forecasts. The modeling process generates forecast data through a broad range of factors that may affect production, including remaining reserves, planned developments and projections from company sources, projections from country and international energy agencies and historical decline rates. GlobalData’s team of upstream analysts uses these factors in conjunction with traditional decline analysis theory to estimate production through to the economic and/or production limits of the asset. The methodological approach includes:

Country/Macro Forecasts
The country-level energy supply and demand forecast takes into account national energy policies; projections from company sources, for example BP and ENI; projections from national and international energy agencies, such as the IEA and OPEC; and historical growth rates.
The historical relationship between Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and consumption growth for a particular commodity is analyzed when forecasting the consumption in a country.
Historical growth rates and information relating to new projects and planned expansions are used as a base for forecasting reserves and the production of oil and natural gas.

Field Forecasts
The parameters considered when forecasting oil and gas production, revenues, the contractor take and the government take include reserves and production, capex and opex, discount rates, and fiscal regime and key economic assumptions regarding oil and gas prices.

Reserves And Production
Production forecasts are generated using multiple regression models. Decline curve analysis and Hubbert’s logistic models are used in declining and early producing fields, respectively.

Capex and Opex
Real-time capex and opex are used for asset valuations.


Discovered Field Methodology

The production forecast for discovered fields is based on GlobalData’s analysis of production rates and development strategies for similar analog fields. The analog fields are selected from our database of announced, planned, producing or abandoned fields, based on having similar characteristics to the discovered field.

Production for announced, planned, producing or abandoned fields is determined using reported information, from operators and governments, and the forecast is based on reservoir engineering principles and calculated using a modified Arps equation (qt = qip / (1 + b Di t) ^ 1/b). Variables within the Arps equation, such as nominal decline rate, annual terminal decline and decline exponent, have been programmed to defined settings. Available historical production data are also used accordingly for understanding and projecting field decline. A number of additional factors are taken into account, such as reported reserves, field location and production phase.

For the Discovered fields, data such as geological attributes, hydrocarbon quality, published resource estimates, field location, proximity to nearby infrastructure and type of development is used to match the discovered field to similar fields in our database. The production rates and commodities produced from these analog fields is used to estimate the potential of the Discovered field. The Confidence Score given for each Discovered field is an assessment of the quality and availability of the input data from the analog fields used in the overall evaluation of a discovered field. The score is a GlobalData rating that considers mainly expenditure and recovery variables used in the valuation including:
Quality of commodity - calorific content, gravity, sulphur content and hydrogen sulfide content
Availability and location of existing infrastructure such as pipelines, refineries and processing facilities
Facility Type identified for the discovered field and its top tier analogues
Reserves - in place/contingent/prospective which informs recovery for discovered field
Final rankings for discovered fields range from 0 - 5 , with 5 meaning the high confidence in the quality of the input data compared to peer discovered fields.

Economic Assumptions

Assumptions are used by analysts to fill in gaps in historical data and set a common baseline for economic evaluations. They are carefully recorded in our support documentation. Many techniques are used to develop assumptions, including parametric and analgous assessments. Analysts periodically re-visit assumptions as additional data become available and update economic valuations to reflect these changes.

Inflation
Historical capex and opex are inputted into our economic valuation in nominal terms. Along with the historical revenue associated with production, the cash flow is converted to real values using GlobalData’s Inflation Factor (GDIF). For capex inflation, GDIF comprises eight industrial indices that are tracked, weighted and eventually merged into an inflation factor, with data spanning nine decades, from 1926 to 2016. For opex inflation, the same methodology applies usinginstread nine industrial indicies with data available from 1940 - 2016. The indices have been referenced from the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, and reflect a cross-section of the factors that affect the development and operational costs of oil and gas projects. The GDIF is updated once per month and reviewed overall twice per year to check the relevance of the industrial indicators chosen and to update values.

The industrial indices are crude petroleum, diesel fuel, gasoline, industrial chemicals, machinery and equipment wholesaling, motor vehicles, steel mill products, and truck transportation of freight.

Future Cost and Price Inflation - Inflation for future cash flow is set to 0% across all economic valuations as a standard. The assumption can be adjusted from the Asset Inputs tab in the economic model or by using the online valuation tool. All updates are reflected in the economic valuations in real time.

Discount Rate - A value of 10% is used as the standard assumption across all economic valuations. The discount rate was chosen based on worldwide profitability availability estimates. The assumption can be adjusted from the Asset Inputs tab in the economic model or by using the online vaulation tool. All updates are refelcted in the economic valuations in real time.


Commodity Pricing Methodology

Commodity prices are sourced specifically for an asset or field when available. When not available, commodity prices are taken with reference to country or regional benchmarks. In the case of a regional benchmark, commodity prices are referenced to the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) or Brent Crude index, and an estimated discount or premium is applied according to historical differentials and quality adjustments. Domestic prices are used in countries with regulated pricing in hydrocarbon production. Commodity future prices are estimated based on the monthly quotations of benchmark commodities traded in a future exchange. A historical differential is estimated and applied to the commodity price during the first three future years. These are held constant from the fourth year. If futures prices are not available, the differential between the regional price and benchmark over the most recent six months is carried forward.
Prices are monitored and updated quarterly. Quarterly updates assist in normalizing the volatile commodity indices, so that the economics and project development of a field can be reasonably assessed and evaluated.


Fiscal and Regulatory Methodology

Information on fiscal and regulatory terms are researched on both a country-level and asset-level basis. Key sources of information include the relevant legislation, original contracts and licenses, bid round tender documents, and company reports. Analysts also regularly contact governmental organizations in order to gain additional insights into the fiscal and regulatory environment. Sources are cross-checked against one another in order to gain the fullest picture of the investment climate and any variation of terms and their application.

Analysts monitor fiscal and regulatory terms on a daily basis and GlobalData's upstream fiscal and regulatory reports, fiscal models and fiscal comparison tools are updated as such changes occur. All information is also reviewed and updated on a periodic basis in order to ensure continued accuracy.

NPV Assumption
For all full cycle NPV and IRR calculations, GlobalData assumes the cash flow to begin at the earlier of the first capital expenditure incurred and ten years prior to first commercial production. Development NPV and IRR calculations are calculated based on cash flows from the first year of development expenditure.

Take Comparison Tool Assumptions
The take comparison tool uses three development scenarios with standardized production and cost profiles to give comparable economic metrics across fiscal regimes. The three scenarios are 30 mmboe, 100 mmboe and 500 mmboe fields, each with a production life of 30 years and first oil in 2019. The cost profiles for these scenarios are static: capex is based on exploration expenditure of US$50 million and development capex of US$8/boe, while average opex over the field life is US$7.9/boe. These profiles are based on global averages in order to isolate the effects of the different fiscal terms. Prices are also kept static at US$53.63/bbl for oil and US$3.01/mcf for gas.

State take, which comprises all cash flows to the state from levies such as royalties, taxes, bonuses, other payments, the state or NOC's production entitlement as first party to a contract, and the cash flows generated by any mandated government or NOC interest, is given as a percentage of the field’s pre-tax cash flow (total field revenue minus capex and opex). The state take percentage is given on both an undiscounted basis and using a 10% discount rate.

Low, Base and High Case Scenarios
Forecast data including expenditure, revenues and economic metrics such as IRR and remaining NPV are calculated for three scenario types through a sensitivity analysis. This analysis assesses the impact of seven key factors: production, commodity price, upfront payments, capital expenditure, operating expenditure, taxes and, where applicable, state share of profit oil. With consideration to recent oil price trends, a margin of +/- 25% is used to establish the high and low cases from the base case, applied to commodity price only. Other factors production, upfront payments, capital expenditure, operating expenditure, taxes and state share of profit oil remain constant. Sensitivities are applied independently to the applicable values and calculations from the discount year onwards.

Break-even Price
The break-even price of a field is calculated on a field by field basis using the economic model. The price assumptions in the model are edited in an iterative process until the price at which the NPV of the field is calculated as zero. Through this process, not only are gross revenues changed but also price sensitive fiscal terms such as some windfall taxes and profit oil sharing and any other cash flow influences dependent on price in the model. This granular method means the break-even price calculated is very representative for each individual field.


Key Terminology
[A] [B] [C] [D] [E] [F] [G] [H] [I] [L] [M] [N] [O] [P] [R] [S] [T] [W] [1] [2] [3]

AttributeDefinition
AcreageTotal area of the block
Associated Bid RoundA bid round under which the associated blocks and licenses are awarded
Associated Block 1Refers to the block associated to the unitized or split status block; the block associated to the license
Associated FieldRefers to another field to which field is associated, typically a production complex that the field may belong to.
Base Case Remaining NPV US$ MMThis is the total remaining Net Present Value (NPV) discounted at 10% in Million US Dollars in the base case. Base case is defined as when the production, capital costs, operating costs and commodity prices are at the current capacity and macroeconomic (market) levels and no additional hike is expected in any of these three attributes above the current prevailing capacity and market conditions. For the definition of NPV, please refer to NPV (US$ mil) below.
BasinDenotes the sedimentary/hydrocarbon basin where a field, block or well is located
Bid Award DateThe date on which blocks under the bid round are awarded
Bid Due DateThe due date by which the oil and gas companies should submit their application for exploration blocks, to the ministry
Bid Round Announce DateThe date on which the bid round is announced
Bid round numberDenotes the bid round, under which the blocks are under offer or awarded for exploration
Bid round StatusDenotes the status of the bid round - Completed and Upcoming
Block AreaDenotes the area (state/province) within a country where block is located
Block CountryDenotes the country where the block is located
Block NameDenotes the name of the block as defined/given by the corresponding oil and gas commission of the country
Block RegionDenotes the region (Asia, Africa, Europe, etc.) where the block is located
Block StatusIndicates operational status of the block – Licensed, Unlicensed, Unitized and Split
Block TerrainDenotes the county within a country where block is located (these are entered only for United States)
Break-even priceCalculated on a field by field basis for development and remaining break-even price using the economic model. Price assumptions in the model are edited in an iterative process until the price at which the NPV of the field is calculated as zero. Gross revenues are adjusted as well as price sensitive fiscal terms such as windfall taxes and profit oil sharing and any other cash flow influences dependent on price in the model. Production costs are also considered including opex (includes transportation costs, administrative costs), capex, taxes etc.
Calorific ValueRefers to the calorific value of a commodity that is produced. It is the quantity of heat produced by its combustion at constant pressure and under "standard" conditions (i.e. to 0°C and under a pressure of 1,013 mbar).
Capex to First Production (US$ mil)The capital expenditure spent including exploration and appraisal and development costs such as drilling of production wells and key infrastructure, required to bring the oil and gas project online to first production. This cost does not include ongoing maintenance capex, redevelopment capex or abandonment costs. Note that E&A costs are generally considered sunk cost in GlobalData's methodology except for a small selection on global key asset found in the detailed analysis section of Upstream Economics.
Capital Expenditure Per boe (US$ MM/boe)The ratio of total capital development and replacement spending on an oil and gas project to the total expected production from the project. This is one of the key indicators that explains the optimization of the cost to derive maximum value from an investment. The lower this number, the better the effectiveness of the investment.
Capex/boe (US$/boe)The ratio of total capital expenditure oil and gas project to the total expected production from the project. This is one of the key indicators that explains the optimization of the cost to derive maximum value from an investment. The lower this number, the better the effectiveness of the investment. Capex/boe is presented both on a full-cycle basis (from the start of operations) and on a remaining basis (from the current year forwards).
Cash flow Case PeriodRefers to the period for which the cash flow value is provided
Cash flow Case TypeEither Base case, High case, Low case - as per the UE model
CommodityDenotes the type of hydrocarbon found in the well, whether it is oil, gas or both
Completion DateDenotes the date on which the well reaches its total depth
Confidence ScoreAn assessment of the quality and availability of the input data from the analogue fields used in the overall evaluation of a discovered field. The score is a GlobalData rating that considers mainly expenditure and recovery variables used in the valuation including
Quality of commodity - calorific content, gravity, sulphur content and hydrogen sulfide content
Availability and location of existing infrastructure such as pipelines, refineries and processing facilities
Facility Type identified for the discovered field and its top tier analogues
Reserves - in place/contingent/prospective which informs recovery for discovered field
Final rankings for discovered fields range from 0 - 5 , with 5 meaning the high confidence in the quality of the input data compared to peer discovered fields.
Constituent EntityDenotes the area (state/province) within a country where a field, block or well is located.
Contingent ResourcesDenotes resources that are reported to be potentially recoverable but not considered for commercialization due to technological or business considerations.
Conventional OilDenotes oil with an API ≥ 22°
CountryDenotes the country where a field, block or well is located
Development Break-Even Gas Price (US$/mcf)The gas price (real flat gas price) at which the value of the project at the start of development equals zero. The gas price corresponding to an NPV of zero indicates the minimum price at which an asset will break-even, this means that operations from the development start year of a project must have gas prices equal to this value to not lose money or above this value to be commercial. This is based on applying the gas price to both the natural gas and LNG streams while keeping all other commodity prices static at their standard assumptions.
Development Break-Even Oil Price (US$/bbl)The oil price (real flat oil price) at which the value of the project at the start of development equals zero. The oil price corresponding to an NPV of zero indicates the minimum price at which an asset will break-even, this means that operations from the development start year of a project must have oil prices equal to this value to not lose money or above this value to be commercial. This is based on applying the oil price to crude oil and condensate production while keeping all other commodity prices static at their standard assumptions.
Development CommercialityIndicates the commerciality of a potential new development based on base case project economics. Fields with IRR > 15% are classified as Commercial, while Marginal indicates an IRR of 10-15% and Sub-commercial indicates an IRR < 10%. Fields that are already active or have passed Final Investment Decision (FID) are classified as Active/Confirmed.
Development NPV (US$ mil)The value of a project at the start of development, calculated as the sum of all discounted cash flows from the first year of development forwards. Discounted cash-flows is inclusive of taxes, royalties, bonuses and other fiscal considerations, operating expenditure, capital expenditure, depreciation, amortization and state entitlement. Abandonment cost are included as part of capex.
Development Start YearDenotes the first year of capex spend to bring a project to first production including drilling and completion of production and injection wells, facility costs, engineering and consultancy services etc. Exploration and appraisal costs are excluded.
DiscountRefers to the percentage (%) differential below the reference commodity index for that specific price marker
Discovery DateDenotes the date on which hydrocarbons are encountered in the well
Drilling ObligationTotal number of wells committed to be drilled during exploration phase
Drilling RigA drilling rig is a machine which creates holes in the ground. Drilling rigs can be massive structures housing equipment used to drill water wells, oil wells, or natural gas extraction wells
Estimated Gas Reserves (bcf)Denotes the estimated amount of Natural Gas located in a particular well
Estimated Oil & Gas Reserves (mmboe)Denotes the combined estimated amount of Oil & Gas located in a particular well
Estimated Oil Reserves (mmbbl)Denotes the estimated amount of crude oil located in a particular well
Field AreaDenotes the area (state/province) within a country where the field is located
Field CountryDenotes the country where the field is located
Field NameRefers to an accumulation of hydrocarbons in the subsurface. Each field is owned by a group of companies (participants) and operated by a company (operator) at a particular point of time. A field cannot have multiple operators at any point of time.
Field StatusRefers to the operational status of the field –abandoned, announced, planned, producing or discovered
Abandoned: Denotes fields that have had commercial production, where the reservoir has been depleted and the development infrastructure has been decommissioned/abandoned.
Announced: Denotes projects that are undergoing conceptual studies/pre-feed or moving into feed/FDP or are likely to target FID
Discovered: Emerging opportunities where exploration and appraisal wells confirm hydrocarbon presence, but commercial viability is still to be determined
Planned: Denotes greenfield projects that have received final investment decision from equity-holding companies to develop/build/construct it
Producing: Fields that have been developed and are currently producing hydrocarbons that are monetized domestically or internationally
Stalled: Denotes a planned or announced project whose development is currently not in progress but has possibility to be revived later. In addition, there is no information available that the project has been cancelled.
Suspended: Denotes producing projects whose production is currently not in progress but may be resumed at a later date. In addition, there is no information available that the project has been cancelled.
Field TerrainDenotes whether the field is located in onshore or offshore area.
Fiscal takeFiscal take comprises all cash flows to the state from levies such as royalties, taxes, bonuses, other payments and the state or NOC's production entitlement as first party to a contract. Fiscal take does not include participating interests (whether carried or not) held by the government or NOC.
FormationDenotes the structure of the rock in which hydrocarbons are found
Gas Oil RatioRefers to the ratio of gas to oil in the producing stream from the field.
Gas test flow rate (mmcfd)Denotes the gas production rate during well testing
GravityRefers to the specific gravity of the commodity produced from the field.
Gross pay thickness (ft.)Denotes overall interval of pay section of a reservoir that contains economically producible hydrocarbons
Heavy OilDenotes oil with an API between 0° - 21° inclusive
High Case Remaining NPV US$ MMThis is the total remaining Net Present Value (NPV) discounted at 10% in Million US Dollars in the high case. High case is defined as when the production expected to increase by 10%, capital costs decrease by 5%, operating costs decrease by 10% and prices increase by 20%, point forward (post current inflation year for cost and production)
In Place ReservesRefers to the total liquid, Oil In Place or gas, Gas In Place in the reservoir both commercial and non-commercial; that is, those economically viable and those considered uneconomical to recover. These figures are reported numbers.
IRR (%)IRR or the Internal Rate of Return is the discount rate that would make the NPV of a project equal to zero and is used as a profitability measure. The higher the IRR, the better is the investment. Typically, IRR is expected to be and should be higher than return from any alternative investments (safe, such as bank interest rate) added to the risk premium. The IRR shown in upstream analytics is calculated from the start of development.
Lease TypeRefers to the Type of the Lease - Federal, State, Private, Other. This is specific for North America
License Effective DateThe date on which the exploration license is awarded
License Expiry DateThe date on which the exploration license is anticipated to expire
License NumberName of the License as defined/given by the Oil & Gas commission, to the associated block
License StatusIndicates operational status of the license (Expired, Production & Exploration)
License TypeDenotes the type of the license - PSC, PSA, Service Contract, Concession
Low Case Remaining NPV US$ MMThis is the total remaining Net Present Value (NPV) discounted at 10% in Million US Dollars in the low case. Low case is defined as when the production expected to decrease by 10%, capital costs increase by 5%, operating costs increase by 10% and prices decrease by 20%, point forward (post current inflation year for cost and production)
Max Water DepthDenotes the maximum water depth for offshore blocks
Maximum Economic Development Cost (US$ mil)This is an assessment of the capital investment at which the development has a net present value (at a discount rate of 10%) equal to zero for the base case recoverable resource estimate.
Measured Depth (MD) (ft.)The actual distance measured along the axis of the borehole from the Rig Kelly bushing to the maximum penetrated depth of the well
Min Water DepthDenotes the minimum water depth for offshore blocks
Minimum Capital Expenditure ObligationThe minimum capital investment made by the operator and other equity participants to explore and develop a block
Minimum Economic Resource Size (boe)This is the assessment of the minimum recoverable resource estimate required for the development to have a net present value (at a discount rate of 10%) equal to zero for the base case capital investment.
MinistryRefers to the Oil & Gas commission or ministry
Net pay thickness (ft.)Denotes Net pay sand or pay zone of a reservoir that contains economically producible hydrocarbons
NPV (US$ mil)The total net difference of the total investment outlaid on a project to the sum of the present values of all the future cash inflows from the project. NPV should be positive and the magnitude of it is the most significant criterion for choosing a project from investment. In short, NPV is the sum of the discounted cash-flows and is inclusive of taxes, royalties, bonuses and other fiscal considerations, operating expenditure, capital expenditure, depreciation, amortization and state entitlement. Abandonment cost are included as part of capex.
Oil test flow rate (bd)Denotes the oil production rate during well testing
Operating Expenditure Per boe (US$ MM/boe)The ratio of total annual expenditure on an oil and gas project to carry the production operations. This number varies based on the complexity, location, geology and size of the project.
OperatorOperator of the license, which is one among the participants
Operator Effective DateDate as of which the operator company starts operating the license
Operating Expenditure US$ MMAll the expenditure involved in daily operations aggregated at annual level originating from the field operations.
Opex/boe (US$/boe)The ratio of total operating expenditure on an oil and gas project to its total production. This number varies based on the complexity, location, geology and size of the project. Opex/boe is presented both on a full-cycle basis (from the start of operations) and on a remaining basis (from the current year forwards).
Other ObligationsObligations other than drilling and seismic obligations, like technology obligations, discovery obligations etc.
Ownership NotesNotes related to ownership details, if any
ParticipantRefers to the companies developing the fields; ownership (equity) structure of a field, block or well
Participant Effective DateDate as of which the participants have a stake in the license
Participation %Percentage share held by each participant in the license
Participation % (Costs)Percentage of the total cost of a project which a company should bear as per the agreement / concession.
Participation % (Production)Percentage stake of a company in the gross marketable production of all the commodities from a field.
Payback (years)The amount of time in years that it takes for a project's investment to be fully recovered on an undiscounted basis. This is calculated from the first year of development.
PremiumRefers to the percentage (%) differential above the reference commodity index for that specific price marker
Pre Tax Cash Flow US$ MMTotal net annual cash flow to the participant(s) before deduction of fiscal take (typically royalties, bonuses, fees, state entitlement and taxes)
Primary Trap Type
Production Case TypeEither Base case, High case, Low case - as per the UE model
Production PhaseRefers to the recovery techniques used in the extraction of crude oil and natural gas
Prospective ResourcesDenotes reported pre drill estimates for undiscovered accumulations that are estimated indirectly.
Post Tax Cash Flow US$ MMThe net annual cash flow (the bottom line) to the participant(s) after payout of all the applicable royalties, bonues, fees, state entitlement and taxes.
Recoverable ReservesRefers to the economically viable reserves produced from the reservoir from the start of production until the end of the life of the field. This number is calculated by GlobalData by summing the annual production across all commodities for reported historic production and calculated forecast production.
Recoverable ResourcesRefers to the resources anticipated to be recovered from the start of production until the end of the life of the Discovered field. This number is calculated by GlobalData through summing the annual production across all commodities for calculated forecast production. Production forecast is estimated based on analogue field analysis, prospective and contingent reserves and other technical characteristics of the Discovered field.
Recovery FactorRefers to the fraction (or percentage) of the volume of hydrocarbon produced (recovered) from the amount of volume initially in place.
RegionDenotes the broad region where a fields, block or well is located (Africa, Asia, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Former Soviet Union, Middle East, North America, Oceania, South America)
Remaining NPV (US$ mil)The present value of a given project, calculated as the sum of all discounted cash flows from the current year forwards. Discounted cash-flows is inclusive of taxes, royalties, bonuses and other fiscal considerations, operating expenditure, capital expenditure, depreciation, amortization and state entitlement. Abandonment cost are included as part of capex.
Remaining Break-Even Gas Price (US$/mcf)The gas price (real flat gas price) at which the remaining value of the project calculated from the current year forwards equals zero. The gas price corresponding to an NPV of zero indicates the minimum price at which an asset will break-even, this means that for continued operations from the current year, a project must have gas prices equal to this value to not lose money or above this value to be commercial. This is based on applying the gas price to both the natural gas and LNG streams while keeping all other commodity prices static at their standard assumptions.
Remaining Break-Even Oil Price (US$/bbl)The oil price (real flat oil price) at which the remaining value of the project calculated from the current year forwards equals zero. The oil price corresponding to an NPV of zero indicates the minimum price at which an asset will break-even, this means that for continued operations from the current year, a project must have oil prices equal to this value to not lose money or above this value to be commercial. This is based on applying the oil price to crude oil and condensate production while keeping all other commodity prices static at their standard assumptions
Remaining ReservesRefers to the economically viable reserves produced from the reservoir from the current date until the end of the life of the field. This number is calculated by GlobalData by summing the annual production across all commodities of calculated forecast production.
Resource TypeRefers to the resources associated with the field.
Royalty RateThe payment made by the companies to the oil and gas ministry in the form of kind or cash towards the ownership of a block
Seismic Activity ObligationObligation by the oil & gas ministry to the companies, to perform seismic activity in a pre-defined area (i.e., Block) within the definite period of time
Signature BonusThe payment which is made up front to the oil & gas ministry for the right to develop a block commercially before exploration begins
Spud DateDenotes the date on which the drilling rig first enter into the bore hole
State Net Cash Flow (US$ mil)The total annual receipts net to the host government, which typically includes royalties, bonuses, fees, state entitlement and taxes.
State TakeState take is equal to the fiscal take (all cash flows to the state from levies such as royalties, taxes, bonuses, other payments and the state or NOC's production entitlement as first party to a contract) plus the cash flow generated by any mandated government or NOC interest.
Surface RentalThe rent which is paid by the company/s to the oil and gas ministry towards the surface area of a block per Acer per annum
Total Capital Expenditure US$ MMThe total spending on an oil and gas project over a period of time, which includes but not limited to, exploration and appraisal, drilling for development, infrastructure (production, transportation and storage) and abandonment.
True Vertical Depth (TVD) (ft.)The vertical distance from the Rig Kelly bushing to the maximum depth of the well
Water Depth (WD) (ft.)The depth of water from the sea level to the bottom surface at a well location
Shallow Water: 0 ft. - 999 ft. inclusive
Deepwater: 1000 ft. - 4,999 ft. inclusive
Ultra-deepwater: ≥ 5,000 ft.
Well Cost (US$ mil)Refers to the specific gravity of the commodity produced from the field.
Well Cost CurrencyDenotes all the expenses made by an operator that are necessary in the drilling and preparation of well for the production of oil and gas
Well directionDirection of the Well, whether it is drilled Horizontal or Vertical
Well NameName of the well as defined/given by the operating company or corresponding Oil & Gas commission of the country
Well TerrainRefers to the location of the well within a country, whether it is on Land or in Water
Well TypeType of the Well - Discovery, Tight hole, Dry hole, Appraisal or, Development
1P ReservesDenotes those reserves claimed to have a reasonable certainty (normally at least 90% confidence) of being recoverable under existing economic and political conditions, with existing technology. Industry specialists refer to this as P90 (i.e., having a 90% certainty of being produced). The term 1P is frequently used to denote proved reserves.
2P ReservesDenotes the sum of proved and probable reserves.
3P ReservesDenotes the sum of proved, probable and possible reserves



US Lower 48 Wells Tool

This web-based comprehensive upstream US Lower 48 Wells tool provides an extensive database covering active, inactive and pending wells for screening of well productivity and completion details. In addition, users can generate type curve and single well forecast and economics with modifiable inputs for testing strategic scenarios on demand.
The tool consists of four components – Data Browsers, Data Visualization, Economic Valuations/Metrics and Activity Map for screening and custom calculations helping identify new avenues for business development and growth.

Data Sourcing

Reported data for all wells including producing and injection wells are collected from state agencies and open registries such as FracFocus in the case of completion data. Well level information is submitted by the operators and all data is cleaned and standardized as state agencies have various reporting requirements. In addition differing state requirements influences the completeness of data for parameters.

Production is available on a well level for most states monthly and on a lease level for others. Where states report lease level production data, GlobalData redistributes lease data to the wells covered by the lease. The database parameters such as well status and production are updated based on the state release schedule.

Key parameters not reported by operators are calculated using proxies of other information available

Play – Mapped using formation and basin well level details to main shale plays in the US
Lateral Length – Calculated using measured depth vs true vertical depth, top perforation vs bottom perforation, wellhead coordinates vs bottom hole coordinates
Proppant Mass – Estimated proppant mass and proppant mass per lateral foot from data provided by FracFocus and state ministries (if available) for the well
EUR – Estimated ultimate recovery of the well, which is calculated based on the economic life of the well
IP 30/60/180/365 – Calculated as average initial production (IP) rate during first 30/60/180/365 days of well production
Cumulative 30/60/180/365 – Represents total produced volume during first 30/60/180/365 days of wells production

Features

My Wells
Selected wells, a result of customized and filtered browsers can be saved to the ‘My Wells’ feature. Within the browser, users can select all or a portion of resultant wells and with the Add Wells button create a named well pool to save the wells. Multiple named well pools can be created and are stored on the user profile for access in different user sessions. Well pools can contain more than 1 well.


The feature allows flexibility to search and select wells across the various browsers using multiple search criteria with well pools. Existing well pools can be deleted or edited where wells within the pools are deleted or new wells added. Wells and their associated data can be exported to excel and users have the option to display the wells on the analytics data grid and interactive charts.

Well economics can only be performed on well pools.

Single Wells Economics – Performed on single wells from any well pool. Base economics are provided that can be edit, regenerating the economic profile for the well. Expenditures, pre- and post-tax cash flows and metrics are generated.
Generate Type Well - Performed on well pools containing 1 or more wells. Wells in the well pool are normalized by bringing each well to their relative peak, generating an average curve. The best fit type well is then creates and economics calculated averaging the cost of the wells used to create the type well. Production profile and economics are modifiable.

Quick and Advance Search

Quick Search and Advance Search allows for customization of the analytics browser without having to individually filter through each parameter on the analytics grid. Each of the analytics browsers has a quick search option with four parameters that best fits its functionality.

Production Browser Quick Search parameters - API Number, First Production Date, EUR Total (mmboe), Play
Completions Browser Quick Search parameters - API Number, Operator, Play, Producing Formation
Operator Browser Quick Search parameters - Operator, State, Well Count, Play
Map Browser Quick Search parameters - State, Operator, Well Count, Play
Economics Browser Quick Search parameters – EUR Total (mmboe), Pre-Tax IRR (%), Pre Tax Break-Even Oil Price (US$/bbl), Pre Tax Break-Even Gas Price (US$/mcf)

Advance Search allow for customization across all available well parameters arranged functionally arranged for ease of navigation.



Export to Excel

Wells in the customized analytics grid in any browser can be exported to excel. Excel export contains all parameters separated in 4 tabs

US Well Data – Single point data incorporating well details, location data, injection data, economics, permits, cumulative production, initial production, estimated ultimate recovery
Production Time Series Data – Monthly/Yearly historical and forecast production data by commodity
Injection Time Series Data - Monthly/Yearly historical reported injection data by injection type
Economic time Series Data - Yearly cash-flows for capital expenditure, operating expenditure, pre-tax and post-tax NPV’s


Analytics Browsers

US Lower 48 Wells Tools is an extensive database with standardized and cleaned data for 4+ million wells including production and well details from official state agencies and open data registries. The 150+ reported and calculated parameters are divided into 5 functional browsers with interactive charts, customizable through a quick search, advance search or parameter filters directly through the display data analytics grid.

Production Browser
Completions Browser
Operators Browser
Map Browser
Economics Browser

By default the browser displays active wells that are currently producing and customization in one browser automatically filters the others. Multiple filtered wells in any browser can be saved to user profile through the ‘My Wells’ feature and all data can be exported to excel. All wells are tagged with their basic well details and location parameters such as API number, well type, Reporting Operator, Parent Company, country, township.


Production Browser

The production browser contains data related to well productivity that includes both reported and calculated parameters. Single point data points include pre- and post-tax economics such as IRR and breakeven price, estimated ultimate recovery (EUR), IP rates for 30/60/180/365 days and cumulative production during first 30/60/180/365 days. Time series data is also available and includes parameters such as monthly and yearly historical and forecast production, expenditure and NPV cash-flows and injection data. The production browser also has a Production time series graph with data presented in Well, State and Total views.


Completion Browser

The completion browser houses reported completion and fracturing details. Calculated parameters are also available such as lateral length and proppant mass and proppant mass per foot. Two completion graphs are accessible - cross plot and a distribution chart with a choice of up to 9 axis variables for ranking wells


Operators Browser

Operators browser allows views of well data aggregated by operator Parameters are averaged for all the relevant parameters under the specific operator. The company names have been cleaned for ease of screening with the analytics grid displaying reporting operator and the cleaned parent company. Operator charts incorporate completion, production and economic metrics to rank operator portfolios. Two operator graphs are available – cross plot and a distribution chart with a choice of 15+ axis variables for ranking on an operator level.


Map

Map browser uses a heat maps to show well density. The map contains state, play and county layers. Users can navigate the map down to the well level to see well identification details and move any well to the ‘My Wells’ feature in a well pool. The analytics grid filtered for specific wells, automatically adjusts the activity map. The map also has a polygon feature that allows users to directly draw on the map identifying the specific wells for further analysis.


Well Economics

Well Economics features on the fly economics calculator with 2 options for generating single well and type well economics only from wells saved in ‘My Wells’.


Single Well Economics

GlobalData’s proprietary forecast engine uses historical production, reservoir engineering principles and leverages operator cost profiles to pre-calculate economics and production forecasts for producing wells. Capital and operating expenditure assumptions are based on publicly available information published by over 100 operators where teams of analysts monitor and update cost assumptions to develop the complexity and timeliness of the modelling permutations. Single wells pulled into the Single Well Economics tool have modifiable cost input assumptions and Arps equation variables allowing users to re-run economics on the fly.

Pre- and post-tax metrics is calculated with an option to export well production profile, cash flows and single-point parameters.


Type Well Generation

Type well generation tool creates type wells based on any group of wells saved in My Wells. Curves are generated separately for oil and gas where the production profile is generated automatically based on the best match to average curve. Cost assumptions are fed from single wells in the well pool. Arp’s equation parameters and cost inputs are editable with economics and the production forecast generated on demand. Type well production profile, cash flows and single-point parameters can be exported to excel.

Well Production Methodology

Production from the state agencies is reported in monthly volumes as barrels (bbls) for liquids or thousand cubic feet (mcf) for gas. Monthly volumes are converted to daily production rates by dividing the volumetric monthly production by the days of the month for that specific month reported. The last reported production by the operator is identified by the parameter ‘Last Production Date’.

Two well productivity parameters are available initial production rate and cumulative production for 30, 60, 180 and 365 day intervals.

IP 30/60/180/365 – Calculated for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGLs, total hydrocarbon production and water from the production start date.
Cumulative 30/60/180/365 - Calculated for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGLs, total hydrocarbon production and water volumes from the production start date.

Lease to Well Allocation - Texas

The Railroad Commission of Texas (RRC) through the oil and gas division regulates activities relating to the oil and gas industry in Texas. The RRC receives production reports on a lease level by operators and GlobalData uses several methodologies to break down to a well level depending on the information available on a well level.

Texas Lease to Well Allocation Methodology


Hydrocarbon Production Forecast

Production is forecast based on reservoir engineering principles and calculated using a modified Arps equation (qt = qip / (1 + b Di t) ^ 1/b). Variables within the Arps equation, such as nominal decline rate, annual terminal decline and decline exponent can be modified by the user in the economics browser and regenerated for single wells and type wells. Available historical production data is used accordingly for understanding and projecting well decline.

For new wells that have not yet reached peak production and are yet to commence initial decline, decline parameters are are estimated using analogue wells. Analogue wells are selected based on matching well characteristics such as operator, state, play, etc., though production comparisons are not included. Forecast decline parameters for analogue wells are averaged and provided as input estimated decline parameters for the new wells. Default values b=1 and Di=0.5 are used if analogues are insufficient.

Well life for single wells and type wells is determined by assessing the economic limit for the well, that is, when the pre-tax cash-flow is no longer positive. Well life is trimmed at the last positive year of pre-tax cash flow. For new wells in their early producing life or mature/marginal wells with ongoing forecast of negative cash-flow, well life is cycled for 1 year beyond current year then trimmed, that is, trimmed at [current year + 1].

Water Production Forecast

Water production is calculated on for wells with reported historical water production. The historical water cut trend is calculated using latest historical data point where:

water cut = water production/total production

The water cut is then used to forecast water production, with a factor of 0.0012 used year over year to represent water cut increases over time.

water production = total hydrocarbon production * water cut/(1 - water cut)

Type Well Generation

Type well creation starts with selecting producing wells to be used to build a type well. All parameters are available for use in each browser to rank, screen and group wells. There is no limit on number of wells to be selected for building a type well and chosen wells are saved to My Wells pool for analysis in the economic browser tab.

The pool is completely independent from the wells in data grid in the economic browser, which makes it easy to screen for wells first before adding them to the pool. At any point of time wells can be removed/added from/to the Pool. Users have the option to plot production for all wells in the Pool before building a type well. This is to ensure that production profiles of wells in the pool satisfy user’s criteria.

The type well profile is created through the following steps.

Identify the primary resource type of the type well by comparing total wells oil and gas production volumes
Identify peak production for a main commodity and date it happened for each well in the pool
Shift well’s main commodity production to its own peak date, so that production of all the wells in the Pool starts at time when its peak occurred. Ignore production data points for main commodity before that date
Shift production of other commodities to the time when the peak of main commodity happened
Average well production of each commodity to get average oil and gas production profiles
Find best fit match to the averaged production curves by varying arps equation parameters
Type well for each commodity is built based on identified equation parameters

Well Completion Methodology

Completion data is sourced through state agencies and open source registries such as FracFocus with updates to GlobalData’s database scheduled according to the sources timed releases. GlobalData’s uses key reported data to calculate well attributes that are not widely reported but are important for calculating well economics and effecting comparative well analysis.

Lateral Length Calculation

Lateral length is calculated by 3 different methodologies depending on the data available for the well.

Proxy 1: Measured depth – True Vertical Depth
Proxy 2: Bottom Perforation – Top Perforation
Proxy 3: Bottom Hole Coordinates - Top Hole Coordinates

Proppant Mass Calculation

Proppant Mass is calculated in pounds (lbs) using data from the open source registry FracFocus. For each well FracFocus lists ingredients identified as proppant using CASNumber, a unique identifier for each type of proppant. GlobalData cleans and standardizes these numbers since states may upload data to the registry in varying formats. The methodology is as follows:

Total Base Water Volume in gallons is converted to Total Base Water Mass in lbs.
Total Base Water Mass (lbs) = Total Base Water Volume (gal) * Average Density of Base Fluid (lbs/gal)
Average Density of Base Fluid (lbs/gal) = 8.33 lbs/gal
Determine the sum of base water percentage (%) by adding the percentage of water ingredients when the CASNumber is identified to be 7732-18-5 where % >5%.
Determine the mass of hydraulic fluid.
Mass of Hydraulic Fluid (lbs) = total Base Water Mass/(Sum of Base Water Percentage (%)/100)
Determine the sum of proppant percentage (%).
Sum of Proppant Percentage (%) = Sum of Percentage HF Job for identified proppant CASNumber
Estimate the mass of the proppant (lbs)
Estimated Mass of Proppant (lbs) = Sum of Hydraulic Fluid Mass (lbs) X (Sum of Proppant Percentage (%)/100)

Well Cost Methodology

Well costs are estimated for single wells and leveraged for type well calculations. Reported costs for 100+ operators were researched where operators usually report average well cost across a combination of parameters - play, state or county. Information collected includes

Total well costs or the components – drilling, completion, infrastructure/facilities
Average cost of production or the components - lease operating expenditure, gathering, processing and transportation costs.

Cost profiles were developed for vertical, horizontal and directional wells with a lateral lengths above 2,000 feet and for those below 2,000 feet.

Lateral Lengths above 2000 feet



Lateral Lengths below 2000 feet

Type Well Economics

Type wells economics are generated by leveraging the cost profiles of well in its well pool.

Total Well Cost (capex) – average drilling cost completion cost, infrastructure/facilities cost, annual maintenance capex and abandonment costs of all the wells in the pool to derive the well cost for a type well
Average cost of production (opex) - average fixed opex of all the wells in the pool to derive a fixed opex for a type well. Weight average LOE (Lease Operating Expenditure) by well’s economic EUR to derive an LOE cost for a type well.

After type well economics is generated, users can change the inputs, including inputting water disposal and NGL processing fees separately from LOE and GP&T cost. In this case, water cut needs to be inputted if water disposal fee is entered, and NGL split – if NGL processing fee is entered.

Royalty rate, state and federal tax rates for type wells are based on where the majority of wells are located. If there is an equal amount of well from more than one state, the higher rate is applied.

Key Terminology
[A] [B] [C] [E] [F] [G] [I] [K] [L] [M] [O] [P] [R] [S] [T] [W]
AttributeDefinition
API Gravity:A measure adopted by the API for measuring the density of a liquid
API Number:10 – 14 digit unique well identifier number assigned by the state or federal regulatory agency according to the American Petroleum Institute (API)
Base Fluid:Denotes the fluid where proppants and additives are mixed to form the hydraulic fracturing fluid.
Basin:Denotes the sedimentary/hydrocarbon basin where the well is located
Bottom Hole Latitude:The global position system (GPS) latitude position of the bottom perforation of the well bore
Bottom Hole Longitude:The global position system (GPS) longitude position of the bottom perforation of the well bore
Bottom Perforation (ft):Refers to the bottom most point of the formation encountered by the well bore
Commodity:Refers to the commodity produced from the well; oil, gas or oil and gas
Completion Date:Denotes the date on which the well was completed and hence can commence production
Completion Start Date:Denotes the date on which the well commenced completion job
County:US county where the well is located
Cumulative 30:Denotes the cumulative production volume for the first 30 days starting from the first production date. Cumulative volume is calculated for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total hydrocarbon production excluding water. This value is calculated.
Cumulative 60:Denotes the cumulative production volume for the first 60 days starting from the first production date. Cumulative volume is calculated for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total hydrocarbon production excluding water. This value is calculated.
Cumulative 180:Denotes the cumulative production volume for the first 180 days starting from the first production date. Cumulative volume is calculated for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total hydrocarbon production excluding water. This value is calculated.
Cumulative 365:Denotes the cumulative production volume for the first 365 days starting from the first production date. Cumulative volume is calculated for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total hydrocarbon production excluding water. This value is calculated.
Economic Well Life (years):The estimated life of the well calculated by assessing the economic limit of the well when there is no longer positive post tax cash flow
Elevation (ft):Measurement of well location from mean sea level (MSL) to the ground level.
Elevation Type:Denotes the ground or above ground datum from which the elevation is measured. Elevation types include - Barometer, Casing Flange, Derrick Floor, Estimated, Ground Elevation, Kelly Bushing, Rotary Bushing, Spirit Level, Topo Estimation
EUR:Refers to the total volume of economically viable reserves anticipated to be recovered from the start of production until the end of life of the well. This number is calculated through summing monthly or annual reported historical production and forecast production. EUR is calculated for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL and total hydrocarbon production excluding water.
Field Name:Refers to the field to which the well is associated. The name is defined/given by corresponding state Oil & Gas commission
First Production Date:The date of first non-zero production
Formation tops (ft):Denotes the top depths in a well where formations are found in the subsurface
Gas Gravity:The density of gas hydrocarbons expressed as the ratio of the molecular weight of the gas to the molecular weight of air.
Gas Oil Ratio:The volume of gas at atmospheric pressure produced per unit of oil produced
Geodetic Datum:The coordinate system and set of reference points used to locate places on Earth
IP30:Initial Production (IP) rate denotes the production rate for first 30 days starting from the first production date. IP rate is calculated by dividing the cumulative production by the number of days in the respective month. Available for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total (hydrocarbon production excluding water). This value is calculated.
IP60:Initial Production (IP) rate denotes the production rate for first 60 days starting from the first production date. IP rate is calculated by dividing the cumulative production by the number of days in the respective month. Available for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total (hydrocarbon production excluding water). This value is calculated.
IP180:Initial Production (IP) rate denotes the production rate for first 180 days starting from the first production date. IP rate is calculated by dividing the cumulative production by the number of days in the respective month. Available for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total (hydrocarbon production excluding water). This value is calculated.
IP365:Initial Production (IP) rate denotes the production rate for first 365 days starting from the first production date. IP rate is calculated by dividing the cumulative production by the number of days in the respective month. Available for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total (hydrocarbon production excluding water). This value is calculated.
IP Test Date:Denotes the date of well test
Kick Off Depth (ft):Refers to the depth of the kick off point, a point in a vertical wellbore or inclined section of a slant well where directional drilling operations begin also known as the beginning of the build curve.
Last Production Date:The date production was last reported by the reporting operator
Lateral Length (ft):An estimated value denoting the horizontal length from the entry point of the target zone to end point of the well bore
Lease Name:Denotes the name for specific lease acreage where the well is located
Lease Number:Denotes the number associated with the lease name
Meridian:Denotes a line of longitude
Measured depth (ft):The actual distance measured along the axis of the borehole from the Rig Kelly bushing to the maximum penetrated depth of the well
Months to Peak Production:Refers to the number of months from the first non-zero production to the peak production inclusive. Available for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total hydrocarbon production excluding water.
Oil API Gravity:The density of liquid hydrocarbons measured in degrees
Parent Company:Name of the parent company associated with the Oil and Gas reporting operator
Payback Period (years):The amount of time in years that it takes for the well’s investment to be fully recovered on an undiscounted basis. This is calculated from the first year of development.
Peak Production:Denotes the maximum production rate for the well. Available for crude oil, natural gas, condensate, NGL, water and total hydrocarbon production excluding water.
Peak Production Date:The date of peak production.
Play:Denotes an area of hydrocarbon accumulations or prospects in the same region that are controlled by the same set of geological conditions.
Plugged Back depth (ft):Denotes the depth to the bottom of the well, at the top of the last permanent plug.
Plugging Date:The date plugging of the well was commenced.
Post Tax Break-Even Gas Price (US$/mcf):The gas price at which the post-tax discounted cash-flow of the well is calculated as zero. The price assumptions are edited in an iterative process.
Post Tax Break-Even Oil Price (US$/bbl):The oil price at which the post-tax discounted cash-flow of the well is calculated as zero. The price assumptions are edited in an iterative process.
Post Tax IRR (%):The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is the discount rate that would make the post-tax cash-flow of the well equal to zero and is used as a profitability measure.
Post Tax NPV10 (US$ mil):The total net difference including taxes of the total investment outlaid on a project to the sum of the present values of all the future cash inflows from the project. NPV should be positive and the magnitude of it is the most significant criterion for choosing a project from investment.
Pre Tax Break-Even Gas Price (US$/mcf):The gas price at which the pre-tax discounted cash-flow of the well is calculated as zero. The price assumptions are edited in an iterative process.
Pre Tax Break-Even Oil Price (US$/bbl):The oil price at which the pre-tax discounted cash-flow of the well is calculated as zero. The price assumptions are edited in an iterative process.
Pre Tax IRR (%):The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is the discount rate that would make the pretax cash-flow of the well equal to zero and is used as a profitability measure.
Pre Tax NPV10 (US$ mil):The total pre-taxed net difference of the total investment outlaid on a project to the sum of the present values of all the future cash inflows from the project. NPV should be positive and the magnitude of it is the most significant criterion for choosing a project from investment.
Producing Formation:Denotes the name assigned to the producing rock formation
Proppant:Sand or any other natural or man-made material used in hydraulic fracturing to prop open fractures either artificially created or enhanced fractures
Proppant Mass (mil lbs):Mass of sand or any natural or man-made material used in hydraulic fracturing fluid. This value is calculated.
Proppant Mass per ft (lbs/ft):Mass per lateral foot of sand or any natural or man-made material used in hydraulic fracturing fluid. This value is calculated.
Range Direction:Denotes the direction E (east) or W (west) of the meridian.
Range Number:Measured in miles and denotes the distance from the meridian in 6 mile increments. R.1.W means range running west for 0 to 6 miles of the meridian. R.3.W means range running west for 12 to 18 miles of the meridian.
Reporting Operator:Name of the Oil and Gas operator associated with the well as reported in submissions to state agency
Resource Type:Refers to the technique used to obtain hydrocarbon resources, traditional vertical extraction or conventional vs. unconventional
Section:Denotes an area of one square mile within a township where the well is located. There are usually 36 sections in a township with the position 1 in the northeastern corner running west then east in a snake pattern.
State:Denotes the US state where the well is located
Spud Date:Denotes the date on which the drilling rig first enter into the bore hole.
Target Formation:Refers to formation(s) that was originally planned to be targeted by the well
Test IP Oil (bbl):Denotes initial production of well recorded during the testing phase. Test IP is available for oil, gas, condensate, NGL and water as reported by the operator. This volumetric data is given in barrels (bbl) for liquids and thousand cubic feet (mcf) for gas.
Top Hole Latitude:The global position system (GPS) latitude position of the top perforation of the well bore
Top Hole Longitude:The global position system (GPS) longitude position of the top perforation of the well bore
Top Perforation (ft):Refers to the top most point of the formation encountered by the well bore
Total Base Non Water (mil gal):Volume of non-water used as a base fluid to form the hydraulic fracturing fluid.
Total Base Non Water Usage per ft (bbl/ft):Volume per lateral foot of non-water used as a base fluid to form the hydraulic fracturing fluid.
Total Base Water Usage (mil gal):Volume of water used as a base fluid to form the hydraulic fracturing fluid.
Total Base Water Usage per ft (bbl/ft):Volume per lateral foot of water used as a base fluid to form the hydraulic fracturing fluid.
Township:Six mile by six mile square defined by a range and township
Township Direction:Denotes the direction N (north) or S (south) of the base line.
Township Number:Measured in miles and denotes the distance from the baseline or designated parallel in 6 mile increments. T.1.N means township running north for 0 to 6 miles of the base line. T.4.N means township running north for 18 to 24 miles of the base line.
True vertical depth (ft):The vertical distance from the Rig Kelly bushing to the maximum depth of the well
Well Classification:Denotes type of activity the well is expected to perform Well classifications include - Bypass Well, Cathodic Well, Confidential Well, Conversion well, Core test Well, Disposal Well, Domestic Well, Dry Well, EOR Well, Geothermal Well, Helium Well, Injection Well, Observation Well, Oil & Gas Well, Service Well, Sidetrack Well, Source Well, Storage Well, Stratigraphic Test Well, Water Well
Well Detailed Status:Refers to the operational status of the well as reported by the operator. Status’ include - Abandoned, Active, Approved For Plugging, Cancelled, Completed, Confidential, Converted, Drilled Uncompleted, Drilling, Dry Hole, Expired, Gas Lift, Inactive, Intent to Drill, Location to Drill, Orphan, Partially Plugged, Permitted, Pilot, Plugged, Plugged and Abandoned, Plugged Back, Plunger Lift, Producing, Pumping Hydraulic, Pumping Rods, Pumping Submersible, Recompletion, Reentry of Plugged, Shut In, Spudded, Suspended, Temporarily Abandoned, Terminated, Under Construction, Undrilled, Unknown, Waiting on Approval, Withdrawn
Well Direction:Direction of the well, whether it is drilled horizontal, vertical or directional
Well name:Name of the well as defined/given by the operating company or corresponding Oil & Gas commission of the country
Well Status:Refers to GlobalData top tiered operational status of the well rolled up from the well detailed status

In Service - Wells with a Well Detailed Status - Active, Converted and not determined to be production or injector wells
Inactive – Denotes wells with Well Detailed Status - Approved for Plugging, Cancelled, Dry Hole, Orphan, Abandoned, Shut In
Injection – Denotes wells that have a Well Classification - Injection or have non-zero injection in the last 3 calendar months
Pending – Wells with a Well Detailed - Drilling, DUC, Intent to Drill, Permitted, Waiting on Approval, Completed, Recompleted, Reentry of Plugged
Producing - Wells that have a Well Detailed Status - Producing or have non-zero production in the last 3 calendar months
Unknown – Denotes wells with a Well Detailed Status - Confidential or Unknown or wells with no reported status where wells detail are not enough to classify them differently
Well Status Date:The date that corresponds to the Well Detailed Status
Well Terrain:Denotes whether the well is located in onshore or offshore area.
Well Type:Denotes the purpose of the well. Well Types include - Appraisal, Confidential, Development, Discovery, Dry Hole, Exploratory, Tight Hole